##08 September, 2016##

I've heard two conflicting sayings about teaching: "the best should teach", and "those who can't do, teach."  The first is a slogan coined by the Graduate Teacher Program here at CU. The latter apparently was said by a character in the movie, *Annie Hall*, but is supposedly derived from a George Bernard Shaw quote. I imagine GTP coined their phrase as a dissuade belief in the attitude of the latter. I've been thinking about the sayings a lot lately, as I find myself wondering what I should do next in life.

I first heard "the best should teach" as an undergraduate, right around the time I was trying hard to decide what to do as a career. I felt overwhelmed by how challenging science was, especially Chemistry (I still don't like Chemistry very much), and especially math. I mostly felt discouraged by the slogan. GTP might have reasoned, "the world needs more STEM teachers, let's attempt to persuade bright and confident students to give teaching a shot." I didn't feel like the best, so maybe they weren't talking about me. I found  myself disagreeing with the slogan almost defensively. I thought to myself, "I'm not the best, but that doesn't mean I shouldn't teach. Maybe 'the best' in each field don't tend to be good teachers at all, maybe people who have a hard time end up making better teachers because they'll have more compassion for students when they struggle." It wasn't until tonight that I've realized that I was far from alone in feeling this way. Impostor syndrome is such a common feeling for young students, and especially women, so I've heard. Interesting to think that the brightest probably don't think of themselves as very bright. GTP's slogan may actually be deterring the very students they want to attract.

What's more, perhaps saying "those who can't do, teach" isn't as harmful as a sentiment to recruiting teachers as it first appears. Certainly confident people that want to work in industry want to be perceived as doers, so maybe a handful will have a strong negative response to this. But for those that lack confidence, maybe this makes the prospect of teaching more approachable. Perhaps more doers should become teachers, and GTP knows exactly what they're doing. In the end, I find both phrases discouraging for different reasons. People should teach because they enjoy it. Perhaps we should make some amount of teaching a requirement so more students can be exposed to it. I love teaching, I don't think I'm "the best", and I certainly want to be a do-er. So where does that leave me? 
